arming the Union a new Civil War exhibit
at the American precision Museum in
Windsor Vermont shows how precision
machines enabled skilled workers to
produce innovative weapons for the Union
Army with features including
interchangeable parts and rifled barrels
these innovations help the north win the
Civil War the American precision museums
exhibit also includes an innovative
feature of its own a 3d animation of an
1853 automatic rifling machine while the
Robbins & Lawrence rifling machine is
fascinating in its own right the actual
cutting of the rifling grooves can't be
seen because it happens inside the gun
barrel
additionally the machine cannot be
operated for museum visitors due to the
fragile and irreplaceable nature of its
parts by virtually bringing the machine
to life the 3d animation shows the
complex movements of the machine and
through the magic of animation the
viewer can see the cutting action inside
the barrel and lawless executive
director of the American precision
museum is excited about including an
animation as part of the arming the
Union exhibit according to an animation
is the best possible way to get inside a
19th century machine demonstrative
engineers and animators brought its
subtle mechanisms to life making all the
activities of the machine completely
clear the rifling machine created a
special challenge for di the machine
could only be operated by hand in a very
limited way and had no surviving
engineering drawings or schematics by
carefully recording measurements of the
components and taking detailed
photographs of all aspects of the
machine along with video of the machine
and limited operation the skilled
engineers at DI were able to create a
working digital model of a machine that
was an action over a hundred and fifty
years ago the American precision museums
exhibit opened on Memorial Day to learn
more about the American precision museum
and the arming the Union exhibit which
houses the Robbins & Lawrence right
machine go to American precision org to
see how di develops innovative ways to
visualize technology visit us on the web
at demonstratives com